Jacob Russell
26 August 2018

TrockerTracker

My six-year-old son has Autism.  When we first found out that he had Autism we lived in a place where there are no services, so we decided to move to a location that had those types of services available, however, when we arrived, we found that getting those services was not as easy as just going and getting them.  There are wait lists and tons of information to wade through.  This is our first time having to deal with something of this nature, so we were lost and confused, and it has taken us nearly a year to get the services he needs.  In the United States, 1 in 68 children are on the Autism Spectrum (ASD).  If you count everyone in the United States, that means that over 3.5 million people fall somewhere on that spectrum.  Currently, there are websites where you can find out a lot of information concerning what ASD is and what types of services and therapies help those with Autism.  However, there is not a place on the internet that makes it easy for someone to find those services.

What I am proposing is an online resource that helps to link those who are seeking ASD services with those who provide services and the organizations that support families and sufferers of ASD.  “TrocketTrackers” will be similar in other social media sites such as Facebook or LinkedIn, however, it will be set up so that people seeking services for ASD will be able to find reliable information and those who provide services and other organizations will link up together.  There will be two types of users: the organizations and providers, and the persons seeking services.

First, the organizations and providers will need to provide an address (or location) and information concerning their organization and business.  They will be able to provide contact information as well as a calendar where they can post up availabilities for services.  Other important information such as credentialing and who the providers are will be there.  Organizations will be able to provide a calendar of events such as fund-raising or other events put on by the organization.  These connections on the internet in one centralized location will help not only businesses, but support groups to be able to reach out to those who are looking for help but don’t know where to find it.  

Secondly, those seeking services, or “Trockers” will be able to set up anywhere from simple accounts with basic information such as their name, all the way to being able to provide their city and ASD organizations with whom they affiliate.  This site is to make the “Trockers” as comfortable as possible, while allowing them to find the information they need.  They will also will be able to comment and rate their experience at locations where treatment was received, and the businesses and organizations will be able to respond to the ratings.

In order to implement something of this nature, there will need to be a database containing all the information input from all the different kinds of users, and easily searchable by the Trockers so they can find the information that they need in order to make informed decisions about the services needed.  I will use examples from what LinkedIn and Facebook use in order to create the type of user interface similar to theirs.  It is simple, but straightforward and allows easy ways to search and to find information throughout the site.

In all, TrockerTracker is a social media website that will allow people to connect with businesses and organizations that will help them in finding ASD services and support groups.  These two things are some of the most difficult things to find for families as they move to new places or are confronted with this for the first time.  It’s hard enough for a family to move or to find out that someone in their family is suffering from ASD, let alone the hours upon hours of research and then months of waiting until services are available or even found.
